Meeting Room Booking System FAQ

Security
A couple of people have complained that there is no security at all in MRBS, and anyone can do anything to any booking.

This is not the case. Although security was not (and still isn't) the primary concern, it hasn't been totally ignored:

Anyone can create a booking
You can only change or delete bookings made from your IP address

The way this is enforced is by checking the REMOTE_ADDR environment variable with a "create_by" field in the mrbs_entry table. If they match then changes can be made, if not then the "edit" and "delete" links are not shown.

This does not stop a user hand-editing an URL to get around this, but for this application I don't think this is a big concern. If you consider the environment in which this will be used are those *with meeting rooms* - ie offices, i would guess that there aren't going to be many people inclined to do this around.

I would suspect that anyone who has the technical skill to delete other users meeting room bookings is more likely getting around your firewall to use napster than worrying about meeting rooms.

If you really do care that much about the security features then tell me about how you would fix it.

Proxies
The IP address thing *could* cause problems if all of your clients are set to use a proxy. If the proxy is the only machine which actually connects to MRBS then all of the bookings would be made under it's IP address, and anyone could change any booking.

This is the situation I was in until I discovered how easy to create, and how flexible, Automatic Configuration Scripts are. You can configure both Netscape and IE to choose wether to use a proxy or not based on a simple piece of javascript. There's a page on netscape.com somewhere which says all about how to do it - I'll include the link here when I find it.

mySQL
Yes, it's mySQL only at the moment. I've used some of the Very mySQL SQL extensions with things like dates and time handling. It might get ported to other DBs at some point, but I don't have access to anything else except SQL Server, and I'm not going anywhere near that. If you want this changed then send me patches.

Usage
I don't really know if this is being used by anyone in any real environment. I'm using it at work, with about 150 clients, but that's all I know. If anyone else is actually using it can you drop me a note to let me know how you've got on.
