                          PEAR Installation

What is PEAR?
-------------


PEAR is short for "PHP Extension and Application Repository" and is pronounced
just like the fruit. The purpose of PEAR is to provide:

·	A structured library of open-sourced code for PHP users
·	A system for code distribution and package maintenance
·	A standard style for code written in PHP,
·	The PHP Foundation Classes (PFC),
·	The PHP Extension Code Library (PECL),
·	A web site, mailing lists and download mirrors to support the PHP/PEAR community

Why should I use PEAR instead of the standard installation?
-----------------------------------------------------------

You have not, but you may, if :

- You already use PEAR,
- You would like to know what is PEAR and how it works,
- You would like to install classes in only one place and have them available
  for all your php scripts,
- You would like to easily maintain your classes up to date, upgrade only once
  for all your scripts,

Why should I NOT use PEAR ?
-----------------------------------------------------------

You may not use PEAR if :

- you don't care,
- you can't use it (you have no control over the server),
- you may experience incompatibilities / bugs using PEAR packages with
  different version (either newer or older) than the ones provided with MRBS.

Introduction
------------

The base installation that comes with the PHP distribution as part of the PFC
(PEAR Foundation Classes) contains all the stuff that is needed to run the
PEAR installation tools etc. If you have a recent installation of PHP 4, you
can relax: The PEAR base installation is already installed on your system,
unless you have compiled your PHP with the ./configure flag '--without-pear'.
(Note : on Windows systems we recommend upgrading to PHP 4.3.2, as PEAR
support for windows in previous versions is a bit flaky).

The packages that are not part of the PFC can be installed with the PEAR
package manager. The manager is comparable to Debian's "apt-get". Again: If
you are running a recent version of PHP (> 4.3.0) you can skip this
paragraph. But if you are running PHP 4.2.* or earlier, you need to manually
install the manager.

Apart from installing packages, the PEAR package manager also handles some
other tasks: It can create new packages on your machine, manage a registry of
installed packages, check dependencies and it can interact with an XML-RPC
service on pear.php.net to serve some other tasks.

Getting the PEAR package manager:
---------------------------------

Linux: From PHP 4.3.0 and newer, PEAR Package Manager is installed if no
./configure --without-pear was specified.

Windows: From PHP 4.3.2 and newer, go-pear script is bundled. Please execute
(double click on under Windows Explorer and the like):

> drive:path\to\php\go-pear.bat

Answer all relevant questions. This should install the PEAR Package Manager
in the path you specified. Add this path to your PATH environment (start >
control panel > system > environment), type pear in a prompt and the magic
should operate.

For all of you who are not using the latest version of PHP (> 4.3.0) or wish
to reinstall the Package Manager a provisional way is provided. You can
execute the following command that automatically download all the files
needed to run the "pear" command (the PEAR package installer). Requires
PHP 4.1.0 or newer.

Under linux:

This script can either be directly launched or passed via lynx like this.

$ lynx -source http://go-pear.org | php

The above assumes your php binary is named php and that it's executable
through your PATH.
Note: Some Linux distributions (e.g. Redhat) seem to be using 'links' instead
of 'lynx' as the name for their command line browser. If this is the case for
you, you need to change the above line correspondingly.


Under windows:

Windows users with PHP 4.3.0 must run this command:

> cli\php -n -r `include http://go-pear.org;'

If you have an earlier version, go-pear uses stdin for user input, so you must
first open go-pear.org in your browser, save the file somewhere and then run
the following command:

> php go-pear.php (or whatever you named the file)

Note: In PHP 4.2.0-4.2.3, the PHP CLI binary is named php-cli.exe while
since PHP 4.3.0, it's simply named php.exe in the cli/ folder of your PHP
directory. The CGI is also named php.exe but it sits directly in your PHP
directory.

> cli/php -r 'readfile("http://pear.php.net/go-pear");' > go-pear
> cli/php go-pear.php

Installation: Notes
- If using the CGI version of PHP, append the -q option to suppress headers
in the output.
- Once the go-pear script is initiated, you will see instructions on how to
continue installing PEAR. The first thing you should see is:

Welcome to go-pear!

Updating PEAR Foundation Classes
--------------------------------

We recommand that you update your PEAR base classes to the latest version :

$ pear upgrade PEAR


Installing PEAR::MDB
--------------------

[NOTE: 2003-10-10 :

Current mrbs_MDB use MDB 1.x. MDB release announcement says the behavior of 
some functions will change with MDB 2. The result from this is if you intall 
upgrade MDB to 2.x version, current code will not work. Solution :

- either do not install MDB with PEAR, use the default method
- either, if you use PEAR, use the 'semi-automatic' installation below after
  downloaded the latest 1.x version from PEAR web site
- either, if you use PEAR 1.3+, use '$ pear install MDB-1.x' to install the 
  last 1.x version
NOTE END]

MRBS relies on PEAR::MDB class to connect to DBMS. Therefore you have to
install the PEAR framework before and then PEAR::MDB package.

Note : If you use the PEAR framework, you should not unpack the mdb.tgz file
as specified in the INSTALL notes, because these files will be used instead.
If you have already unpacked it, then delete :
  - MDB.php
  - PEAR.php
  - MDB directory
  - XML directory

The command line installer is the easiest way to install MDB package on your
system. It connects to the PEAR package server via a simple HTTP connection,
loads the package on your system and installs it in the desired location.

Fully-automatic installation:

Using the command line installer is pretty straightforward and easy to use.
Simply run the following line on your shell:

$ pear install XML_Parser
$ pear install MDB

Note: if any of these packages are already installed, just run 'pear upgrade'
instead of 'pear install' in order to use the latest packages. To see which
packages are installed, run '$ pear list'.

Semi-automatic installation:

This is not the recommended installation method, but you can download MDB
package from http://www.pear.php.net/get/MDB and XML_Parser package from
http://www.pear.php.net/get/XML_Parser as gzipped tar archives, and
install them locally. To do this, run the following line on your shell:

$ pear install XML_Parser-x.x.x.tgz
$ pear install MDB-x.x.x.tgz

This command will automatically install the packages and does not require an
online connection.


Webhosting
----------

For those of you wondering if you can install pear on your webhost you will
not be able to use the pear command (unless you have an ssh access to the
server). Not all is lost though. The PEAR package manager just simplifies the
process of installing the packages. One way to go is to install the pear
command on your desktop and copy the files over to the server. Don't forget
you can use set_include_path() to make the directory where you copied the
PEAR files available across your site.

